h2. About

The Mohiva Pyramid project is an "operator precedence parser":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operator-precedence_parser based on the "Precedence climbing":http://www.engr.mun.ca/~theo/Misc/exp_parsing.htm#climbing algorithm described by "Theodore Norvell":http://www.engr.mun.ca/~theo/.

h2. How to use

The library comes with an "example":pyramid/tree/master/src/com/mohiva/pyramid/example of how to use it. This example uses a simple "grammar":pyramid/blob/master/src/com/mohiva/pyramid/example/Grammar.php. It's a very simple calculator with the following precedence table.

|\3. Unary         |
| - | Negative | 3 |
| + | Positive | 3 |

|\4. Binary                                  |
| + | Addition       | 0 | left associative  |
| - | Subtraction    | 0 | left associative  |
| * | Multiplication | 1 | left associative  |
| / | Division       | 1 | left associative  |
| % | Modulo         | 1 | left associative  |
| ^ | Power          | 2 | right associative |

The calculator can deal with "parentheses":pyramid/blob/master/src/com/mohiva/pyramid/example/operands/ParenthesesOperand.php, "integer and floating-point values":pyramid/blob/master/src/com/mohiva/pyramid/example/operands/NumberOperand.php.

So lets talk about the steps to create your own language.
1. Create your grammar and your precedence table
2. Create a "Lexer":pyramid/blob/master/src/com/mohiva/pyramid/example/Lexer.php class to tokenize your input
3. Create your "nodes":pyramid/tree/master/src/com/mohiva/pyramid/example/nodes and "operands":pyramid/tree/master/src/com/mohiva/pyramid/example/operands
4. Parse it

```php

use com\mohiva\pyramid\Parser;
use com\mohiva\pyramid\example\Lexer;
use com\mohiva\pyramid\example\Grammar;
use com\mohiva\common\parser\TokenStream;

$lexer = new Lexer(new TokenStream);
$stream = $lexer->scan('1.1 + 1.5');

$parser = new Parser(new Grammar());
$node = $parser->parse($stream);

$node->evaluate();

```

h2. License

This project is Open Source and released under the terms of the New BSD License.
